docs/PHASE_4_CLEANUP.md, before:

# Phase 4: Documentation & Cleanup

**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Duration:** 1-2 days

---

## Overview

**Goal:** Finalize the refactoring, update all documentation, remove deprecated code, and optimize

**Key Changes:**
- Update main project documentation
- Create migration guide
- Remove deprecated code
- Performance benchmarking
- Final review and release

---

## Task Checklist

### ⬜ Task 4.1: Update Main Documentation
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 2 hours

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Update `README.md` (project root)
  - [ ] Add "Library Architecture" section
  - [ ] Document lib/ structure
  - [ ] Add import examples
  - [ ] Update feature list if needed
  
- [ ] Update `docs/Instructions.md`
  - [ ] Reference new library structure
  - [ ] Update code examples using old imports
  - [ ] Add notes about shared libraries
  
- [ ] Create `lib/README.md` (if not exists, otherwise update)
  - [ ] Overview of all libraries
  - [ ] When to use each library
  - [ ] Link to individual library READMEs

#### Template for README.md Addition
```markdown
## Library Architecture

SnapSpot uses a modular library architecture for code reuse:

### Shared Libraries (`lib/`)

- **`lib/snapspot-data/`** - Pure data operations
  - Parse, write, validate, merge, and split SnapSpot export files
  - No dependencies on DOM, storage, or UI
  - Can be used in browser or Node.js
  - [API Documentation](lib/snapspot-data/README.md)

- **`lib/snapspot-image/`** - Image utilities
  - Blob ↔ Base64 conversion
  - SHA-256 hash generation
  - [API Documentation](lib/snapspot-image/README.md)

- **`lib/snapspot-storage/`** - Storage integration (PWA only)
  - Storage-aware import/export operations
  - Uses both data and image libraries
  - Integrates with IndexedDB via MapStorage

### Usage Examples

```javascript
// Import shared libraries
import { parseExport, buildExport } from './lib/snapspot-data/parser.js';
import { blobToBase64 } from './lib/snapspot-image/converter.js';

// Parse an export file
const exportData = await parseExport(jsonString);

// Convert image to base64
const base64 = await blobToBase64(imageBlob);
```

See [Library Refactoring Plan](docs/LIBRARY_REFACTORING_PLAN.md) for details.
```

---

### ⬜ Task 4.2: Create Migration Guide
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 3 hours  
**File:** `docs/LIBRARY_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md` (NEW)

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Create migration guide document
- [ ] Add before/after code examples
- [ ] Document breaking changes (should be none)
- [ ] Add troubleshooting section
- [ ] Add FAQ section

#### Content Sections
1. **Overview**
   - Why we refactored
   - Benefits of new architecture
   
2. **Migration Checklist** (for external users if any)
   - Update import paths
   - Test your code
   - Check for deprecation warnings
   
3. **Before/After Examples**
   - Old: Duplicate code in app and utils
   - New: Single shared library
   
4. **API Changes**
   - None (backward compatible)
   - Deprecation warnings
   
5. **Troubleshooting**
   - Common issues
   - How to fix import errors
   - Performance considerations
   
6. **FAQ**
   - Why lib/ instead of node_modules?
   - Can I use libraries standalone?
   - Will old exports still work?

---

### ⬜ Task 4.3: Remove Deprecated Code
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 2 hours

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Remove `snapspot-utils/core/formats/snapspot/` directory
  - [ ] parser.js (now re-exports from lib)
  - [ ] writer.js
  - [ ] validator.js
  - [ ] __tests__/ (moved to lib)
  
- [ ] Remove `js/MapDataExporterImporter.js` wrapper
  - [ ] Update app.js to import directly from lib/snapspot-storage
  
- [ ] Search for any other deprecated code references
  - [ ] `grep -r "DEPRECATED" .`
  - [ ] Remove or clean up
  
- [ ] Update all imports in codebase
- [ ] Run full test suite
- [ ] Manual smoke test

#### Verification
Before removing code, verify:
```bash
# Search for usage of old paths
grep -r "core/formats/snapspot" --include="*.js" --include="*.html"
grep -r "MapDataExporterImporter" --include="*.js"
```

Only remove if no results (or only in deprecated files themselves).

---

### ⬜ Task 4.4: Performance Benchmarking
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 4 hours  
**File:** `lib/__tests__/performance.test.html` (NEW)

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Create performance test suite
- [ ] Implement benchmarks for:
  - [ ] Parse large export (10,000 markers)
  - [ ] Build large export (10,000 markers)
  - [ ] Merge two large exports (5,000 markers each)
  - [ ] Split export by 30 dates
  - [ ] Validate large export
  - [ ] Generate 1000 image hashes
  
- [ ] Run benchmarks
- [ ] Document results
- [ ] Compare to targets (see below)
- [ ] Optimize if needed

#### Performance Targets
- Parse 10,000 markers: < 500ms
- Build 10,000 markers: < 1,000ms
- Merge 2× 5,000 markers: < 2,000ms
- Split by 30 dates: < 300ms
- Validate 10,000 markers: < 200ms
- Hash 1,000 images (1MB each): < 30 seconds

#### Test Data Generation
```javascript
// Helper to generate test data
function generate LargeExport(markerCount) {
  const markers = [];
  const photos = [];
  
  for (let i = 0; i < markerCount; i++) {
    markers.push({
      id: `marker_${i}`,
      description: `Test marker ${i}`,
      x: Math.random() * 1000,
      y: Math.random() * 1000,
      timestamp: new Date().toISOString(),
      photoIds: [`photo_${i}`]
    });
    
    photos.push({
      id: `photo_${i}`,
      filename: `test_${i}.jpg`,
      image: generateTestBase64() // Small test image
    });
  }
  
  return { map: testMap, markers, photos };
}
```

---

### ⬜ Task 4.5: Final Review
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 4 hours

#### Subtasks
- [ ] **Code Review**
  - [ ] Review all lib/ modules for consistency
  - [ ] Check JSDoc completeness
  - [ ] Verify error handling
  - [ ] Check for TODO/FIXME comments
  
- [ ] **Documentation Review**
  - [ ] Verify all READMEs up to date
  - [ ] Check for broken links
  - [ ] Verify code examples work
  - [ ] Spelling/grammar check
  
- [ ] **Testing Review**
  - [ ] All automated tests pass
  - [ ] All manual tests documented
  - [ ] Edge cases covered
  - [ ] Error cases covered
  
- [ ] **Architecture Review**
  - [ ] Verify no circular dependencies
  - [ ] Check module boundaries
  - [ ] Verify separation of concerns
  - [ ] Review public APIs

#### Checklist
- [ ] No console.errors anywhere
- [ ] All console.warns are intentional (deprecation notices)
- [ ] No TODO comments in production code
- [ ] All functions have JSDoc
- [ ] All files have copyright/license headers (if applicable)
- [ ] All exports are documented
- [ ] All READMEs have usage examples

---

### ⬜ Task 4.6: Final Commit & Tag
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 1 hour

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Stage all changes
- [ ] Review git diff one final time
- [ ] Commit with comprehensive message
- [ ] Create git tag for release
- [ ] Push to repository
- [ ] Update GitHub release notes (if applicable)

#### Commit Message Template
```
feat: complete library refactoring

BREAKING CHANGES: None (backward compatible)

- Extracted shared functionality into lib/ directory
- Created lib/snapspot-data for pure data operations
- Created lib/snapspot-image for image utilities
- Created lib/snapspot-storage for storage integration
- Updated SnapSpot PWA to use shared libraries
- Updated snapspot-utils to use shared libraries
- Added export merger tool to utils
- Removed deprecated code
- Updated all documentation

Benefits:
- Single source of truth for data operations
- ~40% reduction in code duplication
- Improved testability and maintainability
- Consistent behavior across app and utils

Performance:
- Parse 10k markers: XXXms
- Build 10k markers: XXXms
- Merge 2×5k markers: XXXms

Tested:
- All PWA workflows (export/import/merge)
- All utils tools (migrator, merger)
- All automated tests pass
- Performance benchmarks meet targets

Closes #XXX (if applicable)
```

#### Git Tag
```bash
git tag -a v2.0.0-refactor -m "Library refactoring complete"
git push origin v2.0.0-refactor
```

---

## Manual Testing Checklist

### Final Smoke Test (Complete App)

- [ ] **PWA Full Workflow**
  - [ ] Create new map
  - [ ] Add 10 markers with photos
  - [ ] Export complete map
  - [ ] Delete map
  - [ ] Import exported file
  - [ ] Verify everything restored
  
- [ ] **Utils Tools**
  - [ ] Map migrator: Transform and export
  - [ ] Export merger: Merge 2 files
  - [ ] Verify both tools work
  
- [ ] **Performance**
  - [ ] Export large map (50+ markers)
  - [ ] Import large map
  - [ ] Verify responsive (< 5 seconds)
  
- [ ] **Cross-Browser**
  - [ ] Test in Chrome
  - [ ] Test in Firefox
  - [ ] Test in Edge
  - [ ] Verify all work
  
- [ ] **Console Clean**
  - [ ] No errors in console
  - [ ] Only expected warnings (if any)
  - [ ] No 404s or network errors

---

## Completion Criteria

Phase 4 is complete when:
- [ ] All tasks checked (4.1 - 4.6)
- [ ] All documentation updated
- [ ] Deprecated code removed
- [ ] Performance benchmarks pass
- [ ] Final smoke tests pass
- [ ] Code committed and tagged
- [ ] REFACTORING_WORKFLOW.md marked complete

---

## 🎉 Project Complete!

After Phase 4:
- ✅ Shared libraries implemented
- ✅ PWA refactored
- ✅ Utils refactored
- ✅ Documentation complete
- ✅ Deprecated code removed
- ✅ Performance optimized

**Next steps:**
- Monitor for issues
- Gather user feedback
- Plan future enhancements

Commit message:

refactor: remove snapspot-utils (moved to separate repo)
Removes shared utilities, test framework, and map-migrator tool from
the main repository. These components are now maintained in the
SnapSpot-Utils repository at https://github.com/NielsIH/SnapSpot-Utils

docs/PHASE_4_CLEANUP.md, after:

# Phase 4: Documentation & Cleanup

**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Duration:** 1-2 days

---

## Overview

**Goal:** Finalize the refactoring, update all documentation, remove deprecated code, and optimize

**Key Changes:**
- Update main project documentation
- Create migration guide
- Remove deprecated code
- Performance benchmarking
- Final review and release

---

## Task Checklist

### ⬜ Task 4.1: Update Main Documentation
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 2 hours

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Update `README.md` (project root)
  - [ ] Add "Library Architecture" section
  - [ ] Document lib/ structure
  - [ ] Add import examples
  - [ ] Update feature list if needed
  
- [ ] Update `docs/Instructions.md`
  - [ ] Reference new library structure
  - [ ] Update code examples using old imports
  - [ ] Add notes about shared libraries
  
- [ ] Create `lib/README.md` (if not exists, otherwise update)
  - [ ] Overview of all libraries
  - [ ] When to use each library
  - [ ] Link to individual library READMEs

#### Template for README.md Addition
```markdown
## Library Architecture

SnapSpot uses a modular library architecture for code reuse:

### Shared Libraries (`lib/`)

- **`lib/snapspot-data/`** - Pure data operations
  - Parse, write, validate, merge, and split SnapSpot export files
  - No dependencies on DOM, storage, or UI
  - Can be used in browser or Node.js
  - [API Documentation](lib/snapspot-data/README.md)

- **`lib/snapspot-image/`** - Image utilities
  - Blob ↔ Base64 conversion
  - SHA-256 hash generation
  - [API Documentation](lib/snapspot-image/README.md)

- **`lib/snapspot-storage/`** - Storage integration (PWA only)
  - Storage-aware import/export operations
  - Uses both data and image libraries
  - Integrates with IndexedDB via MapStorage

### Usage Examples

```javascript
// Import shared libraries
import { parseExport, buildExport } from './lib/snapspot-data/parser.js';
import { blobToBase64 } from './lib/snapspot-image/converter.js';

// Parse an export file
const exportData = await parseExport(jsonString);

// Convert image to base64
const base64 = await blobToBase64(imageBlob);
```

See [Library Refactoring Plan](docs/LIBRARY_REFACTORING_PLAN.md) for details.
```

---

### ⬜ Task 4.2: Create Migration Guide
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 3 hours  
**File:** `docs/LIBRARY_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md` (NEW)

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Create migration guide document
- [ ] Add before/after code examples
- [ ] Document breaking changes (should be none)
- [ ] Add troubleshooting section
- [ ] Add FAQ section

#### Content Sections
1. **Overview**
   - Why we refactored
   - Benefits of new architecture
   
2. **Migration Checklist** (for external users if any)
   - Update import paths
   - Test your code
   - Check for deprecation warnings
   
3. **Before/After Examples**
   - Old: Duplicate code in app and utils
   - New: Single shared library
   
4. **API Changes**
   - None (backward compatible)
   - Deprecation warnings
   
5. **Troubleshooting**
   - Common issues
   - How to fix import errors
   - Performance considerations
   
6. **FAQ**
   - Why lib/ instead of node_modules?
   - Can I use libraries standalone?
   - Will old exports still work?

---

### ⬜ Task 4.3: Remove Deprecated Code
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 1 hour

**Note:** The snapspot-utils directory has been moved to its own repository at https://github.com/NielsIH/SnapSpot-Utils and is no longer part of this repository.

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Remove `js/MapDataExporterImporter.js` wrapper
  - [ ] Update app.js to import directly from lib/snapspot-storage
  
- [ ] Search for any other deprecated code references
  - [ ] `grep -r "DEPRECATED" .`
  - [ ] Remove or clean up
  
- [ ] Run full test suite
- [ ] Manual smoke test

#### Verification
Before removing code, verify:
```bash
# Search for usage of MapDataExporterImporter
grep -r "MapDataExporterImporter" --include="*.js"
```

Only remove if no results (or only in deprecated files themselves).

---

### ⬜ Task 4.4: Performance Benchmarking
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 4 hours  
**File:** `lib/__tests__/performance.test.html` (NEW)

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Create performance test suite
- [ ] Implement benchmarks for:
  - [ ] Parse large export (10,000 markers)
  - [ ] Build large export (10,000 markers)
  - [ ] Merge two large exports (5,000 markers each)
  - [ ] Split export by 30 dates
  - [ ] Validate large export
  - [ ] Generate 1000 image hashes
  
- [ ] Run benchmarks
- [ ] Document results
- [ ] Compare to targets (see below)
- [ ] Optimize if needed

#### Performance Targets
- Parse 10,000 markers: < 500ms
- Build 10,000 markers: < 1,000ms
- Merge 2× 5,000 markers: < 2,000ms
- Split by 30 dates: < 300ms
- Validate 10,000 markers: < 200ms
- Hash 1,000 images (1MB each): < 30 seconds

#### Test Data Generation
```javascript
// Helper to generate test data
function generate LargeExport(markerCount) {
  const markers = [];
  const photos = [];
  
  for (let i = 0; i < markerCount; i++) {
    markers.push({
      id: `marker_${i}`,
      description: `Test marker ${i}`,
      x: Math.random() * 1000,
      y: Math.random() * 1000,
      timestamp: new Date().toISOString(),
      photoIds: [`photo_${i}`]
    });
    
    photos.push({
      id: `photo_${i}`,
      filename: `test_${i}.jpg`,
      image: generateTestBase64() // Small test image
    });
  }
  
  return { map: testMap, markers, photos };
}
```

---

### ⬜ Task 4.5: Final Review
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 4 hours

#### Subtasks
- [ ] **Code Review**
  - [ ] Review all lib/ modules for consistency
  - [ ] Check JSDoc completeness
  - [ ] Verify error handling
  - [ ] Check for TODO/FIXME comments
  
- [ ] **Documentation Review**
  - [ ] Verify all READMEs up to date
  - [ ] Check for broken links
  - [ ] Verify code examples work
  - [ ] Spelling/grammar check
  
- [ ] **Testing Review**
  - [ ] All automated tests pass
  - [ ] All manual tests documented
  - [ ] Edge cases covered
  - [ ] Error cases covered
  
- [ ] **Architecture Review**
  - [ ] Verify no circular dependencies
  - [ ] Check module boundaries
  - [ ] Verify separation of concerns
  - [ ] Review public APIs

#### Checklist
- [ ] No console.errors anywhere
- [ ] All console.warns are intentional (deprecation notices)
- [ ] No TODO comments in production code
- [ ] All functions have JSDoc
- [ ] All files have copyright/license headers (if applicable)
- [ ] All exports are documented
- [ ] All READMEs have usage examples

---

### ⬜ Task 4.6: Final Commit & Tag
**Status:** NOT STARTED  
**Estimated Time:** 1 hour

#### Subtasks
- [ ] Stage all changes
- [ ] Review git diff one final time
- [ ] Commit with comprehensive message
- [ ] Create git tag for release
- [ ] Push to repository
- [ ] Update GitHub release notes (if applicable)

#### Commit Message Template
```
feat: complete library refactoring

BREAKING CHANGES: None (backward compatible)

- Extracted shared functionality into lib/ directory
- Created lib/snapspot-data for pure data operations
- Created lib/snapspot-image for image utilities
- Created lib/snapspot-storage for storage integration
- Updated SnapSpot PWA to use shared libraries
- Removed deprecated code
- Updated all documentation

Benefits:
- Single source of truth for data operations
- ~40% reduction in code duplication
- Improved testability and maintainability
- Consistent behavior across app and utils

Performance:
- Parse 10k markers: XXXms
- Build 10k markers: XXXms
- Merge 2×5k markers: XXXms

Tested:
- All PWA workflows (export/import/merge)
- All utils tools (migrator, merger)
- All automated tests pass
- Performance benchmarks meet targets

Closes #XXX (if applicable)
```

#### Git Tag
```bash
git tag -a v2.0.0-refactor -m "Library refactoring complete"
git push origin v2.0.0-refactor
```

---

## Manual Testing Checklist

### Final Smoke Test (Complete App)

- [ ] **PWA Full Workflow**
  - [ ] Create new map
  - [ ] Add 10 markers with photos
  - [ ] Export complete map
  - [ ] Delete map
  - [ ] Import exported file
  - [ ] Verify everything restored
  
- [ ] **Performance**
  - [ ] Export large map (50+ markers)
  - [ ] Import large map
  - [ ] Verify responsive (< 5 seconds)
  
- [ ] **Cross-Browser**
  - [ ] Test in Chrome
  - [ ] Test in Firefox
  - [ ] Test in Edge
  - [ ] Verify all work
  
- [ ] **Console Clean**
  - [ ] No errors in console
  - [ ] Only expected warnings (if any)
  - [ ] No 404s or network errors

---

## Completion Criteria

Phase 4 is complete when:
- [ ] All tasks checked (4.1 - 4.6)
- [ ] All documentation updated
- [ ] Deprecated code removed
- [ ] Performance benchmarks pass
- [ ] Final smoke tests pass
- [ ] Code committed and tagged
- [ ] REFACTORING_WORKFLOW.md marked complete

---

## 🎉 Project Complete!

After Phase 4:
- ✅ Shared libraries implemented
- ✅ PWA refactored
- ✅ Documentation complete
- ✅ Deprecated code removed
- ✅ Performance optimized

**Note:** The snapspot-utils suite has been moved to its own repository at https://github.com/NielsIH/SnapSpot-Utils

**Next steps:**
- Monitor for issues
- Gather user feedback
- Plan future enhancements
